[LoRA] Add LoRA training script (#1884)
huggingface/diffusers: examples/dreambooth/README.md

You can also perform inference from one of the checkpoints saved during the training process, if you used the `--checkpointing_steps` argument. Please, refer to [the documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/training/dreambooth#performing-inference-using-a-saved-checkpoint) to see how to do it.

## Training with Low-Rank Adaptation of Large Language Models (LoRA)

Low-Rank Adaption of Large Language Models was first introduced by Microsoft in [LoRA: Low-Rank Adaptation of Large Language Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.09685) by *Edward J. Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, Weizhu Chen*

In a nutshell, LoRA allows to adapt pretrained models by adding pairs of rank-decomposition matrices to existing weights and **only** training those newly added weights. This has a couple of advantages:

> - Previous pretrained weights are kept frozen so that model is not prone to [catastrophic forgetting](https://www.pnas.org/doi/10.1073/pnas.1611835114)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Previous pretrained weights are kept frozen so that the model is not prone to [catastrophic forgetting](https://www.pnas.org/doi/10.1073/pnas.1611835114)
```

> - Rank-decomposition matrices have significantly fewer parameters than orginal model which means that trained LoRA weights are easily portable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Rank-decomposition matrices have significantly fewer parameters than the original model, which means that trained LoRA weights are easily portable.
```

> - LoRA attention layers allow to control to which extend the model is adapted torwards new training images via a `scale` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- LoRA attention layers allow to control to which extent the model is adapted torwards new training images via a `scale` parameter.
```

[cloneofsimo](https://github.com/cloneofsimo) was the first to try out LoRA training for Stable Diffusion in 
the popular [lora](https://github.com/cloneofsimo/lora) GitHub repository.

### Training

Let's get started with a simple example. We will re-use the dog example of the [previous section](#dog-toy-example).

First, you need to set-up your dreambooth training example as is explained in the [installation section](#Installing-the-dependencies).

> Next, let's download the toy dog dataset. Download images from [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1BO_dyz-p65qhBRRMRA4TbZ8qW4rB99JZ) and save them in a directory. Make sure to set `INSTANCE_DIR` to the name of your directly further below. This will be our training data.

Reviewer: I updated Suraj's suggestion to fix `directly` -> `directory`

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"
```

For this example we want to directly store the trained LoRA embeddings on the Hub, so 
we need to be logged in and add the `--push_to_hub` flag.

```bash
huggingface-cli login
```

Now we can start training!

```bash
accelerate launch train_dreambooth_lora.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=1 \
  --checkpointing_steps=100 \
  --learning_rate=1e-4 \
  --report_to="wandb" \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --max_train_steps=500 \
  --validation_prompt="A photo of sks dog in a bucket" \
  --seed="0" \
  --push_to_hub
```

**___Note: When using LoRA we can use a much higher learning rate compared to vanilla dreambooth. Here we 

> use *1e-4* instead of the usual *2e-6*.___**

Reviewer: 👍 Perfect

The final LoRA embedding weights have been uploaded to [patrickvonplaten/lora](https://huggingface.co/patrickvonplaten/lora). **___Note: [The final weights](https://huggingface.co/patrickvonplaten/lora/blob/main/pytorch_attn_procs.bin) are only 3 MB in size which is orders of magnitudes smaller than the original model.**

> and the training results are summarized [here](https://wandb.ai/patrickvonplaten/dreambooth/reports/LoRA-DreamBooth-Dog-Example--VmlldzozMzUzMTcx?accessToken=9drrltpimid0jk8q50p91vwovde24cnimc30g3bjd3i5wys5twi7uczd7jdh85dh)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The training results are summarized [here](https://wandb.ai/patrickvonplaten/dreambooth/reports/LoRA-DreamBooth-Dog-Example--VmlldzozMzUzMTcx?accessToken=9drrltpimid0jk8q50p91vwovde24cnimc30g3bjd3i5wys5twi7uczd7jdh85dh). You can use the `Step` slider to see how the model learned the features of our subject while the model trained.
```

(I believe you can make the report / project public and remove the `accessToken`)

### Inference

> After training, LoRA weights can very easily loaded into the original pipeline. First, you need to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After training, LoRA weights can be loaded very easily into the original pipeline. First, you need to 
```

load the original pipeline:

```python
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline, DPMSolverMultistepScheduler
import torch

pipe = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe.scheduler = DPMSolverMultistepScheduler.from_config(pipe.scheduler.config)
pipe.to("cuda")
```

> Next, we can load the adapter layers into the UNet with the [`load_attn_procs` function](TODO:).

Reviewer: I believe it should be the following link once merged and published to PyPi:

```suggestion
Next, we can load the adapter layers into the UNet with the [`load_attn_procs` function](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/api/loaders#diffusers.loaders.UNet2DConditionLoadersMixin.load_attn_procs).
```
